### ðŸ› ï¸ Using Custom Configuration

Grafana supports multiple configuration files. Using Kubernetes, you can mount a file using a ConfigMap or a Secret. For example, to mount a custom `grafana.ini` file or `custom.ini` file, you can create a ConfigMap like the following:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: ConfigMap
metadata:
    name: myconfig
data:
    grafana.ini: |-
        dashboardsProvider.enabled=true
        datasources.secretName=datasource-secret
        dashboardsConfigMaps[0].configMapName=my-dashboard-1
        dashboardsConfigMaps[0].fileName=my-dashboard-1.json
        dashboardsConfigMaps[1].configMapName=my-dashboard-2
        dashboardsConfigMaps[1].fileName=my-dashboard-2.json
```

Now, you need to pass the ConfigMap name to the corresponding parameters: `config.useGrafanaIniFile=true` and `config.grafanaIniConfigMap=myconfig`.

To provide dashboards at deployment time, Grafana needs a dashboards provider and the dashboards themselves. A default provider is created if enabled, or you can mount your own provider using a ConfigMap. Note that the path to the dashboard folder must be `/opt/bitnami/grafana/dashboards`.

To create a dashboard, you need a datasource for it. The datasources must be created by mounting a secret with all the datasource files in it. In this case, it is not a ConfigMap because the datasource could contain sensitive information.

To load the dashboards themselves, you need to create a ConfigMap for each one containing the JSON file that defines the dashboard and set the array with the ConfigMap names into the `dashboardsConfigMaps` parameter. Note the difference between the datasources and the dashboards creation. For the datasources, we can use just one secret with all of the files, while for the dashboards, we need one ConfigMap per file.

For example, create the dashboard ConfigMap(s) and datasource Secret as described below:

```sh
kubectl create secret generic datasource-secret --from-file=datasource-secret.yaml
kubectl create configmap my-dashboard-1 --from-file=my-dashboard-1.json
kubectl create configmap my-dashboard-2 --from-file=my-dashboard-2.json
```

> ðŸ’¡ Note: The commands above assume you had previously exported your dashboards in the JSON files: `my-dashboard-1.json` and `my-dashboard-2.json`. The commands also assume you had previously created a datasource config file `datasource-secret.yaml`. Find an example at [Grafana Documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/provisioning/#example-datasource-config-file).

Once you have them, use the following parameters to deploy Grafana with 2 custom dashboards:

```yaml
dashboardsProvider.enabled=true
datasources.secretName=datasource-secret
dashboardsConfigMaps[0].configMapName=my-dashboard-1
dashboardsConfigMaps[0].fileName=my-dashboard-1.json
dashboardsConfigMaps[1].configMapName=my-dashboard-2
dashboardsConfigMaps[1].fileName=my-dashboard-2.json
```

More info at [Grafana documentation](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/).