@rifaterdemsahin ➜ /workspaces/grafana-dashboard (main) $ kubectl get pods -n grafana-mon
itoring
NAME                       READY   STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf   1/1     Running   0          18m
@rifaterdemsahin ➜ /workspaces/grafana-dashboard (main) $ 

To interactively log in to the Grafana pod `grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf`, you can use the `kubectl exec` command. Here's how you can do it:

1. **Open your terminal**.
2. **Run the following command**:
   ```sh
   kubectl exec -it grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf -n grafana-monitoring -- /bin/bash
   ```
   This command will open an interactive shell session inside the specified Grafana pod.

Once you're logged in, you can navigate through the file system, check logs, and make necessary changes.

If you encounter any issues or need further assistance, feel free to ask!

https://grafana.com/tutorials/provision-dashboards-and-data-sources/

I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf$ ls
defaults.ini  grafana.ini  ldap.toml  ldap_multiple.toml  provisioning  sample.ini
I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf$ cd 



I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf/provisioning$ ls
access-control  alerting  dashboards  datasources  plugins
I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf/provisioning$ 

access-control  alerting  dashboards  datasources  plugins
I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf/provisioning$ cd datasources/
I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf/provisioning/datasources$ ls
datasource-secret.yaml
I have no name!@grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf:/opt/bitnami/grafana/conf/provisioning/datasources$ 


It looks like you're trying to create a `default.yaml` file with a data source configuration for Grafana. Here's the correct format for your YAML file:

```yaml
apiVersion: 1

datasources:
  - name: TestData
    type: testdata
```

To create this file, you can use the following command:

```sh
echo -e "apiVersion: 1\ndatasources:\n  - name: TestData\n    type: testdata" > default.yaml
```

This command will create a `default.yaml` file with the specified content. After creating the file, you can place it in the appropriate directory for Grafana to pick it up.

If you need any more help, feel free to ask!

To restart Grafana and load the new changes, you can use the following command to delete the existing pod, which will then be recreated by the Kubernetes deployment:

```sh
kubectl delete pod grafana-858b6f76d7-v6qzf -n grafana-monitoring
```

This command will delete the specified Grafana pod, and Kubernetes will automatically create a new pod with the updated configuration.

If you have any questions or run into issues, feel free to ask!

issue >>>> the file goes away as it is not mounted properly

